So we have gone through a lot and
I have one more kind of major
section to share with you,
and that's on design system culture.
So I'll actually start this
off with another kinda
quick story, if that's all right.
In 2021,
my company spent about a year or so
working with a large
financial services company.
They had hired us to come in and
help them, one, build a design system but
in parallel with that we were building
sort of an MVP for a new product idea.
They're an older organization.
They've been around a while.
One of those companies that is kind
of trying to make the transition
fully into kind of digital.
They have a lot of data they've
collected over the years and
didn't quite know what to do with it.
And so we're working with some folks
to try and turn some of that data,
that valuable stuff into interesting
products for their clients.
They're really competitive company.
They had a ton of new ideas and stuff and
they were just really struggling to move
quickly on executing those new ideas.
Again, we came in to help them
build one of those new products and
then also build a design system.
So hopefully, they could kinda take
that system work and then carry out
executing on some of these new ideas
a little bit faster in the future.
So we jumped in alongside their teams and
we really got to work.
And I look at the stuff we created,
and I'm actually really happy with it.
But [LAUGH] I wish I could sit here and
tell you how amazing this engagement was,
but I'll be very honest,
it was a real struggle.
And it was so
difficult that at the end of that year,
we made the difficult
decision to just walk away.
And we've never actually done that.
In 14 years, never had we done that.
And it was a really
difficult choice to make but
the reason that we gave for
walking away was this,
cultural incompatibility.
And I sat with this at the end
of the year over the kind
of break into the new year and
the holidays and
all that, and
it just didn't sit well with me.
So I spent basically all of
last year trying to understand
what this actually meant.
Why the heck did this happen to us?
What did we miss?
What do I not know about this concept?
And I basically was just talking to
anybody who would give me any time
to talk about culture, who actually
knew what they were talking about.
And that research kinda led me down
a lot of different rabbit holes.
But there's a couple of concepts in
sort of organizational culture that that
are not mine that are like decades
old work, that have been around for
a while that I think are actually really
important and kind of inform the way
that we should be thinking about this
stuff in the systems work we're doing.
Now, talking about culture in and
of itself can be really challenging.
So it's a very nebulous thing,
so I thought it might be good.
I just was looking for a really good
definition of organizational culture, and
the one that I found,
there's many out there, but the one that I
found that really stuck with me was
by a gentleman named Edgar Schein,
who's a social scientist and
a university professor here in the US.
He offers a really simple model that
we can use just to kinda have some
language to talk about
organizational culture, and
he said that culture is
made up of three layers.
The first is our basic
underlying assumptions.
The second is our espoused beliefs, and
the third is the artifacts of the culture.
So, we can think a little bit
more about these in detail.
When I say artifacts, what he meant
when he said artifacts is that these
are the things you see, the really visible
aspects of your culture, the perks,
the benefits, the ping pong table, maybe
the free lunch, those kinds of things,
the stuff that's really obvious
on the surface of the culture.
The espoused beliefs are the things
that people say about your organization?
So the company mission, the vision, the
values, maybe the slogan that's painted
in huge letters on the wall, or the email
signatures, or whatever it is, right?
The conversations even that
are happening in Slack or
Teams where people are talking
about the company.
And then the basic underlying assumptions
are what people actually believe
about the organization.
And these, of course,
are much harder to get at.
Usually in fact, these are kind
of revealed when things get hard.
So you don't know what someone really
believes until they're forced to make
a really difficult decision.
They're forced to prioritize
one thing over another.
Now as an employee, you experience
these things from the top down.
So on your first day at a new company,
you come in,
you get your laptop or whatever,
you observe what's happening around you.
Maybe you get that free lunch or whatever.
And eventually, you start to have some
conversations with folks once you get to
know them, and you hear what they say.
And then at some point, your leaders or
peers are gonna be faced with a difficult
situation, and you will learn what
they truly believe based on the decisions
that they make in that tough time.
And when these things don't align,
right, we call it a weak culture.
So that means the things that you see or
the things that you say don't align with
the things that people actually believe.
Nobody wants to work in that environment.
That's a weak culture or a toxic culture.
Often times weak cultures have
an excessive number of policies and
procedures, right?
They're kind of policing
the behavior of individuals,
and they make decisions based on
the lowest common denominator of behavior.
Now when these three layers all align,
we call that a strong culture, and
that means the organization doesn't
need to be as explicit in stating their
behaviors they expect because
the people all want the same things.
We have common underlying assumptions.
We align at the base level.
We share those values.
That alignment helps tremendously
in building an organization where
people trust each other and
feel like they actually belong.
Now I know I haven't said a single
word about design systems yet.
I promise you I'm getting there.
But I thought it would
be really important for
us to take a few minutes just to have some
common language around culture that we can
use in the conversation about how
this applies to our work on systems.